# Gradient Normalization for Generative Adversarial Networks

Rajaraman Rajagopalan, Sreehitha Kosiganti

This project is based on the paper **“Gradient Normalization for Generative Adversarial Networks” (GN-GAN)** by Yi-Lun Wu et al. (ICCV 2021).  

We start from the official GN-GAN implementation and extend it with **new optimizer variants and training schedules** on **CIFAR-10** using the BigGAN architecture. 
Our objective is to analyze the interaction between various optimization algorithms and Gradient Normalization, and to assess their impact on the stability and quality of samples generated by Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs).

## 1. Project Overview
 - All experiments in this project are performed **only on CIFAR-10** using **GN-BigGAN** architecture
## 1.1 Rajaraman's Contribution:
  - Reproduced the experiment on CIFAR-10 with **BigGAN (32×32)** architecture using train.py.
  - The Test code is available in **my_test.ipynb** file.
  - Configured and tested the with **Adam optimizer**.
  - Implemented and tested **conditional image generation**, including generating new images of the *airplane* class from CIFAR-10.
  - Log **Inception Score (IS)** and **FID** for each optimizer setting for analysis.
  
## 1.2 Sreehitha Kosiganti's contribution:
  - Add support for multiple optimizers in `train_hypothesis.py`:
  - **Adam** (baseline)
  - **SGD + EMA** (Exponential Moving Averages)
  - **SGD + EMA + Dynamic Learning Rate (DLR)**
  - Log **Inception Score (IS)** and **FID** for each optimizer setting for later analysis and visualization.
  - Evaluate models on **CIFAR-10 test statistics** using `pytorch_gan_metrics`.
  - The test code is available in **hypothesis_test.ipynb** file

All experiments in this project are performed **only on CIFAR-10**.


## 2. Environment Setup

### 2.1. Software Versions

- Python 3.8
- PyTorch (CUDA-enabled, e.g. 1.10+)
- torchvision
- tensorboardX
- pytorch-gan-metrics
- absl-py

### 2.2. Installation

1. Create and activate a virtual environment (optional but recommended):

   ```bash
   conda create -n gngan python=3.8
   conda activate gngan
   (or)
   python3.8 -m venv .venv
   .\.venv\Scripts\activate.bat
   

2. Install the dependencies using the below commands
   ```bash
   python -m pip install --upgrade pip wheel setuptools
   pip install -r requirements.txt
3.For FID computation, we use the precomputed CIFAR-10 statistics:(used in my_test.ipynb)
  ```bash
    ./stats/cifar10.test.npz

